# [Provisioning Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines (by Anthony Nocentino)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning/table-of-contents)  

## Basics

In order to make use of Azure you need the following.

1. An Azure user account **which uniquely identifies a user inside Microsoft Azure**. 
2. A **number of subscriptions** set up by an Azure Account **administrator Account**.
3. Potentially other Microsoft User Accounts set up by the admin who gives access to Azure resources to them by assigning to them a corresponding pool of subscriptions. 

It is important to remember that 

- The **Azure user account** is normally subjected to **an access policy** determined by an **administrator** which will determine which resources are accessible by the user, normally by means of a set of **subscriptions**.

- A **subscription** grants access to Microsoft Azure resources and is **used for billing purposes** that is **any subscription is billed separately**.

- There exists a number of **subscription types**.  
    1. Azure free account.
    2. Pay-As-You-go.
    3. Microsoft Visual Studio Azure Subscription.
    4. Enterprise Agreements.

- **Resources** are always assigned to **subscriptions**.

---

## Resource Manager 

**The Resource Manager** allows to build **Resource Groups** and provides a **consistent management and tooling**. Furthermore, it allows for the creation of **Security boundary for role-based access control**.

**The Resource Manager** can also be leveraged to create **Billing grouping**. This scenario makes it possible to accurately monitor the costs of the **individual areas of the business** which each have access to their own pool of resources as a single **resource group**.

To summarise the role of the Resource Manger

- Build Resource Groups.
- Provide consistent managemnet and tooling.
- Build Billing Groups for individual Business Areas.
- Build Security Role-Based security boundaries.

---

## Regions

An **Azure Region** is a **set of data centers deployed within a latency-defined perimeter** which are **connected through a dedicated regional low-latency network**.

In summary an Azure Region presents the following parts.

- A set of data centers.
- The confine of a geografical area.
- A dedicated connecting low-latency network.

More.

[Available and Planned Azure regions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/regions/)

---

## Availability Zone

An **Azure Availability Zone** is a **physically separate locations within an Azure Region**. Each Availability Zone is made of **one or more data centers**. Each Availability Zone is equipped with **individual power, cooling and networking**.

Withing an **Availability Zone** it is guaranteed to have **very low-latency**. In practice for any application with the requirement of **very high-performace** it is possible to deploy all resources within the same Availability Zone.

In summary Availability Zones have the following characteristics.

- Individual data centers within an Azure Region.
- Each datacenter within an Availabilty Zone has indipendent power, cooling and netwoking.
- Resources deployed within the same Availability Zone are garanteed to have very-low latency.  

---

## Placing resources into Regions and Availability Zones

### Goal 1 - Maximize Performance

The **general rule** is that in order to **maximize the performance** of any Azure solution the simplest strategy is
the following.

- Make sure that the **producers and consumers** of information are **physically** close to each other **within and Azure region**. 

This is the cause as the **Azure Region** guarantees that there will be a **high-performance and low-latency** network between producers and consumers.  

### Goal 2 - Ensure Redundancy 

Normally a cloud solution is developed and employed to provide a **reliable always-on services**. This can be achieved my designing the solution with some **redundancy**. 

One possibility **to achieve redundancy without significant impact of performance** is to make services redundant on **separate Availability Zones within the same Azure Region**.

If the requirements of the solution in term of its **SLA** are stricker it might be necessary to plan **redundancy across Azure Regions**.

---

## Azure Service Types

There are two fondamental service types in Azure.

## Infrastructure As A Service (IaaS)

- **Computing and Networking Resources** are managed by the user inside of Microsoft Azure. Essentially this means that your solution will be running on **VMs that are managed by you**, the user. In this case the user is therefore **not** responsible for **the operation of the data center, the physical network and storage.** Conversely, they are responsible for the maintenace of the VMs including updates and patches, the installation and maintenance of the applications that form the solution and all the operations round running them such as monitoring, logging , etc.

## Platform As A Service (PaaS)

- In this model the user is consuming the application directly with no concenr about any infrastructural item including VMs, networking, data center and storage.

---

## Azure Compute (IaaS)

### Azure VM

One of the **IaaS services** offered as part of **Azure Compute** is **Azure Virtual Machines**. **VMs** are **scalable compute resources** in Azure.

The parameters of a VM that can be scaled in Azure are the following.

- CPUs
- RAM
- Disk Resources
- The Number of VMs that are deployed as part of a solution.

### When to use VMs?

The main reason to use VMs in Azure is the requirement to have control over the Operation System. The following is a list of the aspects of the OS of a VM that are entirely responsibility of the user.

- application of the patches
- upgrade to newer versions of the OS
- installation and administration of third-party software i.e. instrumentation, etc.
- security requirements such as encryption, network segmentation and isolation, regulatory compliance

---

## Azure Marketplace Images

These are a collection of OS images provided by Microsoft or other third-parties. Some of the offerings include those in the lost below and hundreds of variations based on them.

- Windows Server
- Windows 7/8/10
- RedHat Linux
- Ubuntu Linux
- Custom Images

In addition to Operating System other **Application Infrastructure** such as **Networking Components** is also available. Some are listed below.

- NetScaler from Citrix
- VPN device
- Configuration Tools like Chef

---