# AZ-203-01-01

### Develop Azure Infrastructure as a Servie Compute Solutions (10-15%)

---

### [AZ-203-01-01 Objectives Coverage](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/learning/exam-az-203.aspx)  

1. Implement solutions that use virtual machines (VM)

    - [Provision VMs](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning/table-of-contents)    
    - Create ARM templates      
    - Configure Azure Disk Encryption for VMs  

---

## Goals

1. Understanding the main parts of Microsoft Azure
2. Create VMs in Azure using some of the available tools
3. Build and deploy custom imsages
4. Manage, provision and protect Data Virtual Disks
5. Create and provison test and Lab environments in Azure 

---

## Related Contents

1. [Microsoft Azure Architect Technologies AZ-300-01-01 Deploy & Configure Infrastructure](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/learning/exam-az-300.aspx)  


2. AZ-100, AZ-101
- Microsoft Azure Integration and Security (AZ-101) Path
- Microsoft Azure Infrastructure and Deployment (AZ-100) Path

---

### Main Resources

1. [Managing Microsoft Azure Virtual Networks (by Tim Warner)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks/table-of-contents)

2. [Provisioning Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines (by Anthony Nocentino)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning/table-of-contents) 

3. [Using Microsoft Azure Resource Groups](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using/table-of-contents)   


### Complementary Resources 

1. [What is subnetting and why to subnet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-yz3FV8WliU)
2. [Subnetting - the simplest way](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecCuyq-Wprc)
3. [Tricks to five classes of IPv4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vcArZIAmnYQ&list=PLSNNzog5eydt_plAtt3k_LYuIXrAS4aDZ)
4. [IPv4 Addressing Lesson 2: Network IDs and Subnet Masks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XQ3T14SIlV4)

---

## [Azure Fundamentals](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=0&mode=live)  

In order to make use of Azure you need to understand the following fundamental parts.

- Account
- Subcription
- Resources
- Resource Manager
- Microsoft Azure Regions

---

### Azure Account

An Azure user account **which uniquely identifies a user inside Microsoft Azure**. There are a few types of accounts available in Azure.

    - Free 
    Which is resource-bound and time-bound.
    
    - Pay-As-You-Go 
    With which invoicing and payments are through credit card.

    - Visual Studio
    Which provides **free** azure credits.

    -Enterprise Agreement
    Which are **prenegotiated agreements** for access to and payment for Azure Services.

### Azure Subscription

A **Microsoft Azure Subscription** **grants access** to Microsoft Azure Resources. Itis a device to achieve two main goals.

    - Manage access policy 
    - Achieve separation of reource pools for billing purposes

A **number of subscriptions** may be set up by and associated with a single Azure Account which is normally the **administrator Account**. 

The Admin Account may later set up other accounts and give access to those accounts to Azure resources that are part of the cloud infrastructure of the same organization by assigning to these other accounts a corresponding pool of subscriptions. This is a way to **control access at subscription level**. 


### Azure Resources

Resources are **assigned to a Subscription**

Any **manageable Artifact** that can be provisioned and/or delployed to the Azure infrastructure i.e. **VMs, Storage Accounts, Queues, Azure Event Hubs, Logic Apps, AppServices, Databases, DNS Services, Load Balancers, VNETs, VPN Gateways, Security Groups, Network Interfaces, Networking Components**, etc.

---

### It is important to remember that 

1. The **Azure user account** is normally subjected to **an access policy** determined by an **administrator** which will determine which resources are accessible by the user, normally by means of a set of **subscriptions**.

2. A **subscription** grants access to Microsoft Azure resources and is **used for billing purposes** that is **any subscription is billed separately**.

3. **Resources** are always assigned to **subscriptions**.

---

## [Resource Manager](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=2&mode=live)

---

**The Resource Manager** allows to build **Resource Groups** and provides **consistent management and tooling**.

### [Resource Groups](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=55c08240-6452-4418-bef9-2190ff79fc4c&clip=0&mode=live)  

**Resource Groups** help to arganise Microsoft Azure resources unto units for the purpose of **management, isolation and security**.

**Resource Groups** are resource boundaries that group a set of Azure resources together which represent a **solution**. Resource groups **can be templated** which allows to provision the same solution in a different environment quickly and easily.

### Resource Groups as Security Boundary 

**Security boundary for role-based access control** can be created by means of **resource groups**.

### Resource Groups for Billing purposes

**The Resource Manager** can also be leveraged to create **Billing grouping**. This scenario makes it possible to accurately monitor the costs of the **individual areas of the business** which each have access to their own pool of resources as a single **resource group**.

### Summary

- Provide consistent management and tooling.
- Build Resource Groups.
- Build Template Deployments.
- Build Billing Groups for individual Business Areas.
- Build Security Role-Based security boundaries.

---

### [How to Design a Resource Group](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=a02863bf-68fa-4377-ba2f-7ae560f0cd22&clip=0&mode=live)  

An **Azure Resource Group** is an **Azure Resource** and amounts to **a container for resources** that can be **managed, secured and isolated as a unit**. The basic rules to identify and design Azure Resource Groups are outlined below.

- Resources in the same Resource Group should **share the same lifecycle**. 
- Each resource can only exist in a reource group.
- Resources can be **added to or removed from** a resource group at any time.
- Resources can be **moved from one resource group to another**.
- Resource groups **can** group resources that **resides in different Azure Regions**
- Resources in one resource group **can interact with** reources in other Resource Groups.

---

### [How to control a Resource Group](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=a02863bf-68fa-4377-ba2f-7ae560f0cd22&clip=0&mode=live)  

[There are **four** elements that control a resource group.](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=0&mode=live)

1. **Tags** 
2. **Locks** 
3. **IAM**
4. **Policies**

Eeach of these elements can be **created and managed** with any of teh following.

- Azure Portal
- Azure CLI
- Powershell

---

### [Tags](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=1&mode=live)    
One or more pieces of text associated with the RG in orged to **categorize and organize** them.Tags can in general be applied to **any** Azure Resource.

 - Tags are **not inherited**. 
 - A max of 15 Tags (name/value pairs) can be applied to a single resource.

---

### [Locks](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=3&mode=live)    
Locks are used to **prevent accidental deletion and/or changes** toresources within the RG. For eample, the resource goroup for all the **Network Resources** should make use of locks to prevent accidental decommision of any of them.

- Locks **are** inherited.

Examples of available locks are 

- DoNotDelete
- ReadOnly

---

### [IAM - Identity Access Management - RBAC Role Bases Access Control](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=4&mode=live)   
IAM is the way access to different resources within a Resource Group is granted to users. 

With IAM the **administrator (owner)** of the RG is provided with **roled-based fine-graded access control** to the resources in the resource group.

- [What is the difference between IAM and Azure AD on the azure cloud?
](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46590866/what-is-the-difference-between-iam-and-azure-ad-on-the-azure-cloud)  

---

### [Azure Policies](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=6&mode=live)  
A Policy is **an Azure Entity** which can be used to control behaviour. 

The **main user cases for policies** are the following.

- Compliance to corporate standards and rules.
- Compliance to the SLA(s) agreement with the organization customers.

**Poilices** are provided to **resource groups** in order **to prevent IT issues** and **enforce rules** which affect the resources within the RG.
There exist a large set of **Azure built-in polices** from which to chhose from. However, it is also possible to design and use **custom policies**.

#### [A practical example of Policies for a Resource Group](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=6&mode=live)  

For example a Policy for the RG `yourorg-net-rg` that is the RG for all the Network Appliances used within the organization could be that **only network related appliances** can be part of the RG `yourorg-net-rg`. In this particular case the **Azure built-in policy** that may be used to achieve this objective is the **Allow resource types** policy which is available in the set of **Azure built-in policies** that are presented to the Azure administrator or owner of the RG when they want to add one to their RG. A related policy is **Deny Resource Type**.

#### [Apply a policy through a template](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=7&mode=live)  

In this example a policy on the RG `your-org-rg` is required to make sure that resources that are part of this RG are all provisione within the same Azure Geographical Location i.e. Central Europe.

Another policy for the RG `yourorg-app1-rg` within which all the resources for the `app1` are provisioned is that no other resource can be added to this RG after it is deployed. **This result can also be achived by imposing a Lock instead of a policy**.

---

### An Example of Resource Group Parition

- [net-rg](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=a02863bf-68fa-4377-ba2f-7ae560f0cd22&clip=1&mode=live)  
- prod-rg
- dev-rg
- app-rg

**net-rg** groups all the **Network Resources**, **prod-rg** groups a single VM and all the reosurces that are ment to work with it. **dev-rg** is the group for the resources that make up a **development sandbox** for the developers at an organization and finally **app-rg** encomapsses an applicationa and all the related resources.

---

## Regions

An **Azure Region** is a **set of data centers deployed within a latency-defined perimeter** which are **connected through a dedicated regional low-latency network**.

In summary an Azure Region presents the following parts.

- A set of data centers.
- The confine of a geografical area.
- A dedicated connecting low-latency network.

More.

[Available and Planned Azure regions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/regions/)

---

## Availability Zone

An **Azure Availability Zone** is a **physically separate locations within an Azure Region**. Each Availability Zone is made of **one or more data centers**. Each Availability Zone is equipped with **individual power, cooling and networking**.

Withing an **Availability Zone** it is guaranteed to have **very low-latency**. In practice for any application with the requirement of **very high-performace** it is possible to deploy all resources within the same Availability Zone.

In summary Availability Zones have the following characteristics.

- Individual data centers within an Azure Region.
- Each datacenter within an Availabilty Zone has indipendent power, cooling and netwoking.
- Resources deployed within the same Availability Zone are garanteed to have very-low latency.  

---

## Placing resources into Regions and Availability Zones

### Goal 1 - Maximize Performance

The **general rule** is that in order to **maximize the performance** of any Azure solution the simplest strategy is
the following.

- Make sure that the **producers and consumers** of information are **physically** close to each other **within and Azure region**. 

This is the cause as the **Azure Region** guarantees that there will be a **high-performance and low-latency** network between producers and consumers.  

### Goal 2 - Ensure Redundancy 

Normally a cloud solution is developed and employed to provide a **reliable always-on services**. This can be achieved my designing the solution with some **redundancy**. 

One possibility **to achieve redundancy without significant impact of performance** is to make services redundant on **separate Availability Zones within the same Azure Region**.

If the requirements of the solution in term of its **SLA** are stricker it might be necessary to plan **redundancy across Azure Regions**.

---

## Azure Service Types

There are two fondamental service types in Azure.

## Infrastructure As A Service (IaaS)

- **Computing and Networking Resources** are managed by the user inside of Microsoft Azure. Essentially this means that your solution will be running on **VMs that are managed by you**, the user. In this case the user is therefore **not** responsible for **the operation of the data center, the physical network and storage.** Conversely, they are responsible for the maintenace of the VMs including updates and patches, the installation and maintenance of the applications that form the solution and all the operations round running them such as monitoring, logging , etc.

## Platform As A Service (PaaS)

- In this model the user is consuming the application directly with no concenr about any infrastructural item including VMs, networking, data center and storage.

---

## Azure Compute (IaaS)

### Azure VM

One of the **IaaS services** offered as part of **Azure Compute** is **Azure Virtual Machines**. **VMs** are **scalable compute resources** in Azure.

The parameters of a VM that can be scaled in Azure are the following.

- CPUs
- RAM
- Disk Resources
- The Number of VMs that are deployed as part of a solution.

### When to use VMs?

The main reason to use VMs in Azure is the requirement to have control over the Operation System. The following is a list of the aspects of the OS of a VM that are entirely responsibility of the user.

- application of the patches
- upgrade to newer versions of the OS
- installation and administration of third-party software i.e. instrumentation, etc.
- security requirements such as encryption, network segmentation and isolation, regulatory compliance

---

## Azure Marketplace Images

These are a collection of OS images provided by Microsoft or other third-parties. Some of the offerings include those in the lost below and hundreds of variations based on them.

- Windows Server
- Windows 7/8/10
- RedHat Linux
- Ubuntu Linux
- Custom Images

In addition to Operating System other **Application Infrastructure** such as **Networking Components** is also available. Some are listed below.

- NetScaler from Citrix
- VPN device
- Configuration Tools like Chef

---

## Elements of a VM

1. The image
2. The Network
3. Block Storage

The image can be an **OS or** an **application infrastructure image**.

The **Network** is the connectivity for your VM to teh rest of your environment or the Internet. Any VM will have **an internal IP adress** that can be use for the internal connectivity to other resources within the Azure ecosystem. However, if required a VM can also be assigned a **public IP address** which makes it available on the Internet.

Each VM has **Block Storage Device(s)** associated with it. The OS itself makes use of one such device and other can be provisioned for **application data**.

---

## Provisioning VMs

There are basically three ways to provision a VM from any available pre-packaged or custom image.

1. From the Azure Portal
2. Using the **Azure CLI**
3. uSING **Powershell**

### Steps to take to create a VM

1. Create or identify an existing a **Resource Group** to which the VM will belong.

2. Define a **Virtual Network (VNET)** for your VM and on this **VNET** a **subnet** to deploy the VM on. Azure will automatically create the **VNET and the subnet** if these are not specified.

3. Defined the storage. There are two main types of storage in Azure. **Managed Storage** and **Storage Accounts**. With the former things are easier to set up.

### Steps to take to create a VM from the Azure Portal - Phase 1

1. Find a prepackaged OS on the Azure Marketplace. Remember tha there are three types of images available **Windows, Linux or Application Infrastructure**images.

2. Give the VM its name to uniquely identify the VM on Azure.

3. Choose the **Disk Type** which can be **Premium SSD** OR **Standard HDD**.

4. Define **Username & Password** on a Windows System. Alternatively, on a Linux system you can either choose **Username & Password** or use a **SSH Public Key**.

5. Assign the **Subscription** with which the VM is going to be registered. This will affect the billing split. 

6. Assign the **Resource Group**.

7. Select a **Location** or **Azure Region**.

8. Select the **VM Size** thus **CPU, Disk & RAM**.

### Configuration of a VM - Phase 2

1. Configure the **HA & Replication**. With this configuration the VM is assigned to an **Azure Availability Zone or Availability Set**.

2. Configure the **storage type** as described above.

3. Configure the **Networking** for your VM i.e. **VNET and Subnet** that were created in the first phase described above. It is also possible to **create additional VNETs and Subnets** in this configuration step. It is also possible to **assign a public IP**.

     - [What is subnetting and why to subnet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-yz3FV8WliU)

     - [Subnetting - the simplest way](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecCuyq-Wprc)

     - [Tricks to five classes of IPv4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vcArZIAmnYQ&list=PLSNNzog5eydt_plAtt3k_LYuIXrAS4aDZ)

     - [IPv4 Addressing Lesson 2: Network IDs and Subnet Masks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XQ3T14SIlV4)

4. Configure the **Network Security Groups**. This is essentially a **basic firewall configuration** bymeans of which it is possible to open specific TCP ports for network services. 

---



---