# AZ-203-01-01

### [Develop Azure Infrastructure as a Servie Compute Solutions (10-15%)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/learning/exam-az-203.aspx)  
---  

Implement solutions that use virtual machines (VM)  

- Provision VMs
- Create ARM templates
- Configure Azure Disk Encryption for VMs

---

## Goals

1. Understanding the main parts of Microsoft Azure
2. Create VMs in Azure using some of the available tools
3. Build and deploy custom imsages
4. Manage, provision and protect Data Virtual Disks
5. Create and provison test and Lab environments in Azure

---

### Main Resources

1. [Managing Microsoft Azure Virtual Networks (by Tim Warner)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks/table-of-contents)

2. [Provisioning Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines (by Anthony Nocentino)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning/table-of-contents) 

3. [Using Microsoft Azure Resource Groups by Fabien Ruffin](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using/table-of-contents) 

4. [Deploying Multiple Virtual Machines in Microsoft Azure](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-deploying-multiple-virtual-machines/table-of-contents)  

5. [Mastering Microsoft Azure Resource Manager](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering/table-of-contents)  

### Related Resources

1. [Microsoft Azure Developer: Monitoring Performance](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-performance-monitoring/table-of-contents)  

2. [Securing Virtual Machines with Azure Key Vault by Gary Grudzinskas](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/securing-virtual-machines-azure-key-vault/table-of-contents)  

3. [Managing Microsoft Azure Subscriptions by Dan Lachance](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-subscriptions-managing/table-of-contents)  

### Complementary Resources 

1. [What is subnetting and why to subnet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-yz3FV8WliU)
2. [Subnetting - the simplest way](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecCuyq-Wprc)
3. [Tricks to five classes of IPv4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vcArZIAmnYQ&list=PLSNNzog5eydt_plAtt3k_LYuIXrAS4aDZ)
4. [IPv4 Addressing Lesson 2: Network IDs and Subnet Masks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XQ3T14SIlV4)

---

## Related Contents

1. [Microsoft Azure Architect Technologies AZ-300-01-01 Deploy & Configure Infrastructure](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/learning/exam-az-300.aspx)  


2. AZ-100, AZ-101
- Microsoft Azure Integration and Security (AZ-101) Path
- Microsoft Azure Infrastructure and Deployment (AZ-100) Path

---

## [Azure Fundamentals](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=0&mode=live)  

In order to make use of Azure you need to understand the following fundamental parts.

- Account
- [Subcription](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-subscriptions-managing/table-of-contents)  
- Resources
- Resource Manager
- Microsoft Azure Regions

---

### Azure Account

An Azure user account **which uniquely identifies a user inside Microsoft Azure**. There are a few types of accounts available in Azure.

    - Free 
    Which is resource-bound and time-bound.
    
    - Pay-As-You-Go 
    With which invoicing and payments are through credit card.

    - Visual Studio
    Which provides **free** azure credits.

    -Enterprise Agreement
    Which are **prenegotiated agreements** for access to and payment for Azure Services.

### Azure Subscription

A **Microsoft Azure Subscription** **grants access** to Microsoft Azure Resources. Itis a device to achieve two main goals.

    - Manage access policy 
    - Achieve separation of reource pools for billing purposes

A **number of subscriptions** may be set up by and associated with a single Azure Account which is normally the **administrator Account**. 

The Admin Account may later set up other accounts and give access to those accounts to Azure resources that are part of the cloud infrastructure of the same organization by assigning to these other accounts a corresponding pool of subscriptions. This is a way to **control access at subscription level**. 


### Azure Resources

Resources are **assigned to a Subscription**

Any **manageable Artifact** that can be provisioned and/or delployed to the Azure infrastructure i.e. **VMs, Storage Accounts, Queues, Azure Event Hubs, Logic Apps, AppServices, Databases, DNS Services, Load Balancers, VNETs, VPN Gateways, Security Groups, Network Interfaces, Networking Components**, etc.

---

### It is important to remember that 

1. The **Azure user account** is normally subjected to **an access policy** determined by an **administrator** which will determine which resources are accessible by the user, normally by means of a set of **subscriptions**.

2. A **subscription** grants access to Microsoft Azure resources and is **used for billing purposes** that is **any subscription is billed separately**.

3. **Resources** are always assigned to **subscriptions**.

---

## [Resource Manager](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=2&mode=live)

---

**The Resource Manager** allows to build **Resource Groups** and provides **consistent management and tooling**. The main features of the Resource Manager are the following.

- Build Resourse Groups.
- Build Delployemnt Templates.
- Includes Tooling such Azure CLI, Powershell, CloudShell, SDKs

---

### [Resource Groups](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=55c08240-6452-4418-bef9-2190ff79fc4c&clip=0&mode=live)  

**Resource Groups** help to arganise Microsoft Azure resources unto units for the purpose of **management, isolation and security**.

**Resource Groups** are resource boundaries that group a set of Azure resources together which represent a **solution**. Resource groups **can be templated** which allows to provision the same solution in a different environment quickly and easily.

### Resource Groups as Security Boundary 

**Security boundary for role-based access control** can be created by means of **resource groups**.

### Resource Groups for Billing purposes

**The Resource Manager** can also be leveraged to create **Billing grouping**. This scenario makes it possible to accurately monitor the costs of the **individual areas of the business** which each have access to their own pool of resources as a single **resource group**.

### Summary

- Provide consistent management and tooling.
- Build Resource Groups.
- Build Template Deployments.
- Build Billing Groups for individual Business Areas.
- Build Security Role-Based security boundaries.

---

### [How to Design a Resource Group](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=a02863bf-68fa-4377-ba2f-7ae560f0cd22&clip=0&mode=live)  

An **Azure Resource Group** is an **Azure Resource** and amounts to **a container for resources** that can be **managed, secured and isolated as a unit**. The basic rules to identify and design Azure Resource Groups are outlined below.

- Resources in the same Resource Group should **share the same lifecycle**. 
- Each resource can only exist in a reource group.
- Resources can be **added to or removed from** a resource group at any time.
- Resources can be **moved from one resource group to another**.
- Resource groups **can** group resources that **resides in different Azure Regions**
- Resources in one resource group **can interact with** reources in other Resource Groups.

---

### [How to control a Resource Group](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=a02863bf-68fa-4377-ba2f-7ae560f0cd22&clip=0&mode=live)  

[There are **four** elements that control a resource group.](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=0&mode=live)

1. **Tags** 
2. **Locks** 
3. **IAM**
4. **Policies**

Eeach of these elements can be **created and managed** with any of teh following.

- Azure Portal
- Azure CLI
- Powershell

---

### [Tags](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=1&mode=live)    
One or more pieces of text associated with the RG in orged to **categorize and organize** them.Tags can in general be applied to **any** Azure Resource.

 - Tags are **not inherited**. 
 - A max of 15 Tags (name/value pairs) can be applied to a single resource.

---

### [Locks](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=3&mode=live)    
Locks are used to **prevent accidental deletion and/or changes** toresources within the RG. For eample, the resource goroup for all the **Network Resources** should make use of locks to prevent accidental decommision of any of them.

- Locks **are** inherited.

Examples of available locks are 

- DoNotDelete
- ReadOnly

---

### [IAM - Identity Access Management - RBAC Role Bases Access Control](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=4&mode=live)   
IAM is the way access to different resources within a Resource Group is granted to users. 

With IAM the **administrator (owner)** of the RG is provided with **roled-based fine-graded access control** to the resources in the resource group.

- [What is the difference between IAM and Azure AD on the azure cloud?
](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46590866/what-is-the-difference-between-iam-and-azure-ad-on-the-azure-cloud)  

---

### [Azure Policies](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=6&mode=live)  
A Policy is **an Azure Entity** which can be used to control behaviour. 

The **main user cases for policies** are the following.

- Compliance to corporate standards and rules.
- Compliance to the SLA(s) agreement with the organization customers.

**Poilices** are provided to **resource groups** in order **to prevent IT issues** and **enforce rules** which affect the resources within the RG.
There exist a large set of **Azure built-in polices** from which to chhose from. However, it is also possible to design and use **custom policies**.

#### [A practical example of Policies for a Resource Group](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=6&mode=live)  

For example a Policy for the RG `yourorg-net-rg` that is the RG for all the Network Appliances used within the organization could be that **only network related appliances** can be part of the RG `yourorg-net-rg`. In this particular case the **Azure built-in policy** that may be used to achieve this objective is the **Allow resource types** policy which is available in the set of **Azure built-in policies** that are presented to the Azure administrator or owner of the RG when they want to add one to their RG. A related policy is **Deny Resource Type**.

#### [Apply a policy through a template](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=17381c6d-9920-4da7-a10d-964c73308b13&clip=7&mode=live)  

In this example a policy on the RG `your-org-rg` is required to make sure that resources that are part of this RG are all provisione within the same Azure Geographical Location i.e. Central Europe.

Another policy for the RG `yourorg-app1-rg` within which all the resources for the `app1` are provisioned is that no other resource can be added to this RG after it is deployed. **This result can also be achived by imposing a Lock instead of a policy**.

---

### An Example of Resource Group Parition

- [net-rg](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=a02863bf-68fa-4377-ba2f-7ae560f0cd22&clip=1&mode=live)  
- prod-rg
- dev-rg
- app-rg

**net-rg** groups all the **Network Resources**, **prod-rg** groups a single VM and all the reosurces that are ment to work with it. **dev-rg** is the group for the resources that make up a **development sandbox** for the developers at an organization and finally **app-rg** encomapsses an applicationa and all the related resources.

---

## [How to maintain Resource Groups](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=4cbeb10f-b812-4668-9e29-fe0c50ee4eb9&clip=0&mode=live)  

- [Deploying a resource group via a template](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=4cbeb10f-b812-4668-9e29-fe0c50ee4eb9&clip=1&mode=live)  
- [Move resorces between RGs](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=4cbeb10f-b812-4668-9e29-fe0c50ee4eb9&clip=2&mode=live)    
- [Redeploy a RG with a template](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=4cbeb10f-b812-4668-9e29-fe0c50ee4eb9&clip=4&mode=live)    
- [How to monitor a RG and set up an Alert on a RG](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=4cbeb10f-b812-4668-9e29-fe0c50ee4eb9&clip=5&mode=live)    
- [Collect and Analyse RG Metrics](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=4cbeb10f-b812-4668-9e29-fe0c50ee4eb9&clip=6&mode=live)    
- [Deleting a RG](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-groups-using&author=gary-grudzinskas&name=4cbeb10f-b812-4668-9e29-fe0c50ee4eb9&clip=7&mode=live)  

### On Moving or Redeploying Resources

As demontrated by the demos it is generally possible to either move a resource from a RG to another or even redeploy a set of resources to a new or existent RG. However, there are a number of limitation that are iherent ti the type of resources involved in this actions.

- Not all resources can be moved or edeployed.
- Some resources must maintain a **globally unique identifier within all Azure**. In this cases when a redeploy is perrformed the new resources must be assigned a new name.

---

### On Monitoring and setting up Alerts

In general it is possible to monitor and set up alerts on **any** Azure Resource and bein Resource Group a type of Azure resource than it is also possible to do the same for them.

There are **four specific attributes** that completely specify an Azure alert.

- **Target** - the resource that is monitored.
- **Criteria** - the event that triggers the alert.
- **Details** - who, when, where, how, etc.
- **Action Group** - who will be the recipients of the alert.

There are a number of **actions** that can be taken in conjuction with raising an alert.

- **Send an email, SMS, Push, Voice Mail**.
- Trigger **an Azure Function**.
- Trigger a **Logic App**.
- Make a call to a **Webhook** i.e. a Azure Hub or other service.
- [**ITSM Connector**](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/itsm-connector-for-azure-is-now-generally-available/).   
- [**Automation Runbook**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/automation-runbook-types).  

Another important aspect related to alerts is that themselves they belong to some resource group. The simplest option is that they belong to teh resource group for which they have been created but this might not be the best strategy and perhaps is best to keep the alerts separated in their own resource group so that they can be managed indipendently to the resources they are applied to.

On practical example of an alert that may be useful to set up on a resource group is for example that raises the alert when a lock on the resource group is deleted. For example, the RG `yourorg-app1-rg` my have a **lock** on it that prevents the creation of new resources or by the same token the `yourord-net-rg` might have a lock on it that prevents the deletion of resources. In both cases it is useful to set up an alert that is triggered when such a lock is deleted by the owner of the RG and susch that the **Action Group** that is the audience that is going to be notified when the alert is triggered is the **admin group**. 

---

## [Regions](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=2&mode=live)     

An **Azure Region** is a **set of data centers deployed within a latency-defined perimeter** which are **connected through a dedicated regional low-latency network**.

In summary an Azure Region presents the following parts.

- A set of data centers.
- The confine of a geografical area.
- A dedicated connecting low-latency network.

More.

[Available and Planned Azure regions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/regions/)

---

## [Availability Zone](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=2&mode=live)    

An **Azure Availability Zone** is a **physically separate locations within an Azure Region**. Each Availability Zone is made of **one or more data centers**. Each Availability Zone is equipped with **individual power, cooling and networking** and **the services available in an avalaibility zone may differ from those of other availability zones even within teh same region!**.

Withing an **Availability Zone** it is guaranteed to have **very low-latency**. In practice for any application with the requirement of **very high-performace** it is possible to deploy all resources within the same Availability Zone.

In summary Availability Zones have the following characteristics.

- Individual data centers within an Azure Region.
- Each datacenter within an Availabilty Zone has indipendent power, cooling and netwoking.
- Resources deployed within the same Availability Zone are garanteed to have very-low latency.  

### However the following limitation must be taken into account

It is Azure policy to roll out service region by region thus it is best practice to make sure that the kind of the resources that are to be part of a particular solution are going to be available in the target regions.

---

## [Placing resources into Regions and Availability Zones](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=3&mode=live) 

In addition to the consideration above there are a number of goals that are typical of any deployment as outlined in the following.

---

## Goal 1 - Maximize Performance

The **general rule** is that in order to **maximize the performance** of any Azure solution the simplest strategy is
the following.

- Make sure that the **producers and consumers** of information are **physically** close to each other **within and Azure region**. 

This is due to teh fact that the **Azure Region** guarantees that there will be a **high-performance and low-latency** network between producers and consumers.  

---

## Goal 2 - Ensure Redundancy 

Normally a cloud solution is developed and employed to provide a **reliable always-on services**. This can be achieved my designing the solution with some **redundancy**. 

One possibility **to achieve redundancy without significant impact of performance** is to make services redundant on **separate Availability Zones within the same Azure Region**.

If the requirements of the solution in term of its **SLA** are stricker it might be necessary to plan **redundancy across Azure Regions** but clearly the level of performance may be reduced.

---

## [Azure Service Types](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=4&mode=live)  

There are two fondamental service types in Azure.

## Infrastructure As A Service (IaaS)

- **Computing and Networking Resources** are managed by the user inside of Microsoft Azure. Essentially this means that your solution will be running on **VMs that are managed by you**, the user. In this case the user is therefore **not** responsible for **the operation of the data center, the physical network and storage.** Conversely, they are responsible for the maintenace of the VMs **including updates and patches**, the installation and maintenance of the applications that form the solution and all the operations round running them such as monitoring, logging , etc.

## Platform As A Service (PaaS)

- In this model the user is consuming the application directly with no concern about any infrastructural item including VMs, networking, data center and storage.

| Type | Advantages | Disadvantages  |
| -----|----------- | -------------- |
| `IaaS` | Full Control. | More maintenance |
| `PaaS` | Limited Control.| Little Maintenance|

---

## [Azure Compute (IaaS)](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=4&mode=live)  

**Azure Compute** is a **collection of IaaS resources**. This means that these resorces are provisioned within the Azure infrastructure but are entirely manager by the user including istallation, patching, etc.

---

### [Azure VM](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=4&mode=live)    

One of the **IaaS services** offered as part of **Azure Compute** is **Azure Virtual Machines**. **VMs** are **scalable compute resources** in Azure.

VMs are scalable as their performance and corresponding running costs are determined by a set of parameters which are chosen by the user according to their requirements. 

The set of parameter that determine the size of teh VM are the following.

- CPUs
- RAM
- Disk Resources
- The Number of VMs that are deployed as part of a solution.
- The type of OS that runs on the VM

---

## [When to use VMs?](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=5&mode=live)  

The main reason to use VMs in Azure is the **requirement to have control over the Operation System**. The following is a list of the aspects of the OS of a VM that are entirely responsibility of the user.

- application of the patches
- upgrade to newer versions of the OS
- installation and administration of third-party software i.e. instrumentation, etc.
- security requirements such as encryption, network segmentation and isolation, regulatory compliance

If any of these aspects are listed in the requirements for your soulution taht you must retain control on any of these aspects that they only avenue to have a solution on the Azure cloud is to implement the solution by means of VMs.

---

## [Azure Marketplace Images](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=2bc58836-ab51-433d-ac2a-0eb60154b431&clip=5&mode=live)  

These are a collection of OS images provided by Microsoft or other third-parties. Some of the offerings include those in the lost below and hundreds of variations based on them.

- Windows Server
- Windows 7/8/10
- RedHat Linux
- Ubuntu Linux
- Custom Images

In addition to Operating System other **Application Infrastructure** such as **Networking Components** is also available. Some are listed below.

- NetScaler from Citrix
- VPN device
- Configuration Tools like Chef

---

## [Goals](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=0&mode=live)  

- The Components of a VM
- Creating a VM in Azure through the Azure Portal
- Creating a VM in Azure through Powershell & Azure CLI
- Using CloudShell
- Undestanding VM states and lifecycle

---

## [Elements of a VM](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=1&mode=live)   

1. The image
2. The Network
3. Block Storage

The image can be an **OS or** an **application infrastructure image**.

The **Network** is the connectivity for your VM to the rest of your environment or the Internet. Any VM will have **an internal IP address** that can be use for the internal connectivity to other resources within the Azure ecosystem. However, if required a VM can also be assigned a **public IP address** which makes it available on the Internet.

Each VM has **Block Storage Device(s)** associated with it. The OS itself makes use of one such device and other can be provisioned for **application data**.

---

## Provisioning VMs

There are basically three ways to provision a VM from any available pre-packaged or custom image.

1. From the Azure Portal
2. Using the **Azure CLI**
3. Using **Powershell**

### [Steps to take to create a VM](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=2&mode=live)  

1. Create or identify an existing a **Resource Group** to which the VM will belong.

2. Define a **Virtual Network (VNET)** for your VM and on this **VNET** a **subnet** to deploy the VM on. Azure will automatically create the **VNET and the subnet** if these are not specified.

3. Defined the storage. There are two main types of storage in Azure. **Managed Storage** and **Storage Accounts**. With the former things are easier to set up.

---

### [Steps to take to create a VM from the Azure Portal - Phase 1](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=3&mode=live)  

1. Find a prepackaged OS on the Azure Marketplace. Remember tha there are three types of images available **Windows, Linux or Application Infrastructure**images.

2. Give the VM its name to uniquely identify the VM on Azure.

3. Choose the **Disk Type** which can be **Premium SSD** OR **Standard HDD**.

4. Define **Username & Password** on a Windows System. Alternatively, on a Linux system you can either choose **Username & Password** or use a **SSH Public Key**.

5. Assign the **Subscription** with which the VM is going to be registered. This will affect the billing split. 

6. Assign the **Resource Group**.

7. Select a **Location** or **Azure Region**.

8. Select the **VM Size** thus **CPU, Disk & RAM**.

---

### [Configuration of a VM - Phase 2](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=4&mode=live)  

1. Configure the **HA & Replication**. With this configuration the VM is assigned to an **Azure Availability Zone or Availability Set**.

2. Configure the **storage type** as described above.

3. Configure the **Networking** for your VM i.e. **VNET and Subnet** that were created in the first phase described above. It is also possible to **create additional VNETs and Subnets** in this configuration step. It is also possible to **assign a public IP**.

     - [What is subnetting and why to subnet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-yz3FV8WliU)

     - [Subnetting - the simplest way](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecCuyq-Wprc)

     - [Tricks to five classes of IPv4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vcArZIAmnYQ&list=PLSNNzog5eydt_plAtt3k_LYuIXrAS4aDZ)

     - [IPv4 Addressing Lesson 2: Network IDs and Subnet Masks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XQ3T14SIlV4)

4. Configure the **Network Security Groups**. This is essentially a **basic firewall configuration** by means of which it is possible to open specific TCP ports for network services. 

---

### [Demo - Creating a VM with Windows & Linux OS](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=5&mode=live)  

1. Create a VNET and a Subnet
2. Connect to the Windows VM via **Remote Desktop (RDP)**
3. Connect to the Linux VM via **Secure Shell (SSH)**

[The typical steps that are necessary to create a VM in Azure are outlined below](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=9&mode=live)   

1. Create an Azure Subscription
2. Logon the Azure Subscription
3. Provision a Resource Group (RG)
4. Provision a VNet and a Subnet for the VM
5. Provision a Public IP Address for the VM (optional)
6. Set a **Network Security Group (NSG)** for the VNet in which the VM resides
7. Provision a NIC for the VM
8. Provision the Storage Account for teh OS
8. Provision the VM (Windows or Linux)
9. Open the the ports throgh the firewall to allow remoting into the VM over its public IP adress i.e. **Remote Desktop Protocol on Windows over TCP through port 3389** or **SSH over TSL through port 22 for Linux**.

---

## Demos

The following demos are a very useful set of examples in which the details how how VMs for various OSs or **Application Infrastructure** can be provisioned in Azure. Some of these demos showcase the necessary **AzureCLI, Powershell and CloudShell** cmdlets step by step and explain their meaning and effects while others demostrate how to quicly and efficiently deploy a VM by condensing the code into a small set of scripted instructions.

- [Demo - Creating a VM with Azure CLI](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=10&mode=live)  

- [Demo - Creating a VM with PowerShell](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=13&mode=live) 

- [Demo - Creating a VM with Azure CLI & very condensed code (no splattering technique)](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=14&mode=live)  

- [Demo - Deploying a VM withCloudShell](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning&author=anthony-nocentino&name=87ace242-98b8-44e5-80ec-b062dd187f10&clip=15&mode=live)  

- Other demos on how to use **Powershell** to create VMs and the necessary resources and **ARM** templates are available at the following resource.  [Mastering Microsoft Azure Resource Manager](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering/table-of-contents). 

---

More on the topic of **VNETs** and **Network Security Groups NSG** can learnt from the following resource.

[Managing Microsoft Azure Virtual Networks (by Tim Warner)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks/table-of-contents)

---

# [Azure Resource Manager (ARM)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering/table-of-contents)  

### [Highlights](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering&author=james-bannan&name=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering-m2&clip=0&mode=live)

- What is Azure Resource Manager (ARM)
- ARM's Architecture
- ARM Resources 
- ARM Resource Types
- ARM Resources Dependencies
- ARM Resource Providers
- ARM REST APIs

---

### [What is Azure Resource Manager (ARM)](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering&author=james-bannan&name=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering-m2&clip=0&mode=live)  

- ARM allows to create logical group resources which are held together by means of an artifact that is 
the **Resource Group** that itself is a resource. **Resource Groups** make it possible to **easily** **deploy, manage and delete** a set of resources rather than having to do the same on an individual basis.

- ARM allows to **define dependencies between resources** which is very important in **ARM Deployment Templates**
in order to make usre that at deployment time the resources necessary for a **solution** are provisioned so 
that if an artifact A depends on and artifact B to exists before it in order to be deployed and configured then
the artifact B is provisioned , deployed and configured before the artifact A. For example the resource **VM** always needs a **Network Interface (NIC)** and a NIC always needs a **VNET**  to be deployed into and by the same token the **VM** always needs **storage disk** for its **OS** to exist before being provisioned.

- ARM guarantee **Repeatable Deployments** as **ARM Template Deployment** are source code that can be saved in source control and shared and versioned as usual.

- ARM allows for **Role Based Access Control (RBAC)** in that it is possible to specify in the template **who** can access the reosurces and **what actions** can be performed by each identity on the resources they are allowed access to.

---

### [Basic ARM Platform Architecture](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering&author=james-bannan&name=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering-m2&clip=0&mode=live)    

1. Azure Resource Manager (ARM)
2. Azure Resource Providers
3. Azure Subscription
4. Workloads of type Iaas
5. Workloads of type PaaS
6. ARM REST APIs

---

### [Resource Providers](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering&author=james-bannan&name=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering-m2&clip=1&mode=live)   

In the following important topics are illustrated

1. [An deployable architecture with IaaS & PaaS artifact and dependencies](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering&author=james-bannan&name=microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering-m2&clip=1&mode=live)  
2. Some Azure Powershell examples that show how to query ARM for resources
3. Some Azure Powershell examples that show how to query about the ARM REST APIs 

---

###  Some Azure Powershell examples that show how to query ARM for resources

Get all the **Resource Providers** that are **available in your Subscription**.

```
Get-AzureRmResourceProvider | 
Select-Object ProviderNamespace, ResourceTypes | 
Sort-Object ProviderNamespace
```

Get a list of all the **Resource Types** which are **available in a particular Namespace** with the important detail of **in which Data Centers** each resource is available for deployment. 

```
Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute | 
Select-Object ResourceTypes,Locations | 
Sort-Object ProviderNamespace
```

---

### Some Azure Powershell examples that show how to query about the ARM REST APIs 

Get the API versions that are available for the resource `Virtual Machine` in the Namepsace `Microsoft.Compute`.

```
(
(Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute).ResourceTypes |
Where-Object {$_.ResourceTypeName -eq 'virtualMachines'}
).ApiVersion
```
---