# [Microsoft Azure Developer: Enterprise Messaging and Eventing (by Stephen W. Thomas)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing/table-of-contents)  


## [AZ-203 Objectives Coverage](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/learning/exam-az-203.aspx)

- Connect to and Consume Azure Services & Third-Party Services (20-25%)

1. Develop event-based solutions

    - Implement solutions that use Azure Event Grid
    - Implement solutions that use Azure Notification Hubs
    - Implement solutions that use Azure Event Hub  

---

### Resources

- [Microsoft Azure Developer: Enterprise Messaging and Eventing (by Stephen W. Thomas)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing/table-of-contents)    

---

## Goals for Enterprise Messaging and Eventing

1. Undestand the difference between messaging and eventing
2. Undestand the Azure Queueing technology options
3. How to make a single point connection from Azure into your Data Centre without a VPN or opening inbound firewall rules
4. How to capture large volumes of real-time events and display them insiade a power app#

## Azure Technologies for Enterprise Messaging and Eventing

1. Azure Sorage Queues
2. Azure Sercice Bus Queues
3. Azure Relay Service
4. Azure Event Grid
5. Azure Event Hub
6. Azure Notification Hubs

---

## Azure Enterprise Messaging and Eventing

**Azure Enterprise Messaging and Eventing** builds on three core technologies.

1. Queues

Queues are persistence stores to which messages can be sent and from which messages can be read.

2. Relay services

Azure Relay Service covers **the Cloud and On-Prem Hybrid scenarios** in which messages are exchaged between an datacenter in Azure and an on-premise datacenter. **Relay service** is not the only way in which this data exchange can be accomplished in Azure. However, it is a easy way in which this can be accomplished **securely**.

3. Event and Notifications

This is primarily powered by the **Azure Event Grid** which enables scenarios where consumers can be notified of events raised from within the Azure infrastructure. It is possible to raise either **Azure system events and custom events** i.e. in conjuction to the sale of a product.

---

## Azure Enterprise Messaging and Eventing Highlights

1. All technologies are desided to work cross-platform

**SDKs for the various platforms and programming languages (Python, C#, Java, etc.) are provided** to enable them to leverage this piece of Azure infrastructure.

2. Setting up Messaging and Eventing may take only minutes.

3. Very Low Cost and High Volume Enterprise messaging.

---

## Difference between Messaging and Events

### Messages

- The underlying technology employs some sort of **polling based mechanism** to check for the presence of messages. This results in a **delay** between the time at which the message is created and the time at which it is read by the consumer.

- The **payload of the message normally is the data** required by the consumer. This makes **messages heavy with respect to events**.

- The **sender** of the message is normally **aware of the nature of the recepient**.

### Events

- The technology si based on a **publish-subscribe** logic. This allows events to be **near real-time**.

- The payloads is normally **metadata** i.e. the location of the data related to teh event and not the data itself that is events are **light-weight**.

- Normally **event sources are ignorant of the subscribers**.

---

## Storage Queues

- This is the earliest Azure queueing technology.
- **Azure Sorage Queues** are **part of Azure Storage**.
- They are **lightweight queueing service**.
- They are accessable wia **RESP API**.
- Message size is limited to **64 KB**.
- The **retention** is **up yo 7 days**.
- Suitable for Azure-to-Azure hand-off.

## Service Bus Queues

- **Part of Azure Messaging**.
- **Part of** the **messages-based reliable messaging platform**.
- Service Bus Queues **exist within the Service Bus Namespace**.
- They offer a **true FIFO processing** solution.
- Maximum message size is **from 256KB to 1MB**.
- It is possible to enable **duplicate detection** on **inbound** messages.
- Have lots of optional enterprise features.
- Provide extensive SDK support for multi-platfrom.
- Supports **in-rder and at-most-once** message delivery.
- Provide **publish-subscribe** model.
- Have **Dead Letter Queue (DLQ)**
- Have **configurable message expiration**.

## [Topics and Subscriptions](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0f9a3869-e136-4df4-9639-c3a3d32ffe94&clip=7&mode=live)  

- Topics and Subscriptions are **extension features** to the **Azure Service Bus**.
- `The most important feature is the publish-subscribe` paradigm - this is what distiguishes Topics from plain messages on a Service Bus Queue.
- The **one-to-many** paradigm.
- **Message Properties routing** as `Rules & Actions`.

1. Use Azure CLI, Powershell or the Azure Portal to create **Topics & Subscription within a Azure Service Bus Namespace**.
2.`Rules for a Subscription` are **best** created in .Net code or a GUI such as the populat **Service Bus Explorer**.

### The important facts to keep in mind are

1. `Topics` are like any other messages on a Azure Service Bus Queue.
2. `Topics` have additional features in that **they can be subscribed to**.
3. `Topics` can be **sent to more than one subscriber at once**.
4. `Filters on a subscribed the Topic can be set to create rules` to route topics to subscriber based on the properties (but niot the payload) of the topic.
5. `Actions` can be set by subscribers **to adjust message properties** as rules are fired. For example if the filter rule on the topic's property named **OrderStatus** were 
`OrderStatus="new"` an `Action` could be set so that the value of the property `OrderStatus` for the received topic when the rule fires is ret to `OrderStatus=processed`. (This can be easily set up in **Azure Service Bus Explorer**)   

---

### [Demo - Creating & Working with Azure Topics & Subscriptions](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0f9a3869-e136-4df4-9639-c3a3d32ffe94&clip=8&mode=live)   

#### Highlights
1. Create a `Topic`.
2. Create Subscriptions for the Topic.
3. Create `Rules (Filters)` to route the Topic to specific subscriptions.


---

### Creation of a Sorage Queue

- [Demo - Creation of an Azure Storage Queue](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0f9a3869-e136-4df4-9639-c3a3d32ffe94&clip=3&mode=live)  

1. You can use any of **Azure CLI, Powershell or the Azure Portal**.
2. Must first already have or create a **Azure Storage Account** in whic the Storage Queue can be provisioned.
3. As anything else in Azure the storage account must be part of a **resource group and Azure subscription**.
4. From the **Overview** page of teh **storage account** select the **Queue option** to navigate to the pane where storage queues can be proviion for the storage account.

### How is it possible to interact with a Azure Storage Queue?

1. [Programmatically in your application by means of the **Azure Storage SDK** for your platform and programming language of choice](https://www.nuget.org/packages/WindowsAzure.Storage/). On Windows set the **connection string** in the **app.config** to that of your **Azure Storage Queue**. 

2. You may use the [**Azure Sorage Explorer**](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/features/storage-explorer/)    

3. Use **Azure Logic Apps** which can read and write messages to **Storage Queues**.

4. Use **Azure Functions**.

### Note - which Azure assents can belong to a Azure Storage Account?

1. Sorage Queues
2. Blobs
3. Files
4. Tables

---

## Creating and Working with a Storage Queue

- [Demo - Creating and Working with a Storage Queue](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0f9a3869-e136-4df4-9639-c3a3d32ffe94&clip=4&mode=live)    

In this demo you learn how

- Create a **Azure Storage Account**
- Provision a **Storage Queue** in the Sorage Account.
- What the **Storage Account Access Key and Connection String** are and where to find them in the portal
- How to use **Storage Explorer** to connect and interact with the Storage Account and Storage Queue i.e. by creating a new message in the Storage Queue.
- How to **set up a Logic App to act as a consumer of messages in the Storage Queue**.

---

## [Creating an Azure Service Bus Queue](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0f9a3869-e136-4df4-9639-c3a3d32ffe94&clip=5&mode=live)  

- [Demo - Creating and Working with Service Bus Queues](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0f9a3869-e136-4df4-9639-c3a3d32ffe94&clip=6&mode=live)  

1. Using the Azure Portal, Powershell or Azure CLI.
2. Create a **namespace** under **Service Bus**.
3. Add one or more **Azure Service Bus Queues** to the provisioned namespace.
4. Set the **access level** to either each individual queues or at the namespace level.

### How to interact with Azure Service Bus Queues

- [Use the **SDK** for your platform and language](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.ServiceBus/). 
- Use any of the Azure features which can esily interact with Azure Service Bus Queues  
    - `Event Grid, Logic Apps, Azure Funtions, etc.`

- Use [Service Bus Explorer](https://github.com/paolosalvatori/ServiceBusExplorer)    

- [Demo - Creating & Working with Azure Service Bus Queues](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0f9a3869-e136-4df4-9639-c3a3d32ffe94&clip=6&mode=live)  

#### Resources 

- [Get started with Service Bus queues](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-dotnet-get-started-with-queues)  

---

## [Relay Service - Hybrid Communication](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=8b69f14c-2ed2-4889-9a44-3c445ed2de96&clip=0&mode=live)  

### Highlights 

- Azure Relay Service
- Hybrid Connection
- WCF Relay

---

### [Relay Services](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=8b69f14c-2ed2-4889-9a44-3c445ed2de96&clip=2&mode=live)  

The **purpose and design** of Relay Services is to provide **secure connection to on-premise networks** `for` resources locate in Azure.
The **aim** is to **establish a bidirectional communication channel between your on-premise network and Azure infrastructure** `without opening any port in the on-premise firewall to allow inbound traffic!`

Onther **important fact** about relay service is that it is designed to establish a connection between resources located in the Azure infrastructure nad **a signle endpoint in the on-premise netwrok** i.e. a SQL server or some other internal service.

### Relay Services are made of two core components

1. **Hybrid Connections** 

**Hybrid Connection** is a **open protocol** build upon **HTTP & Web Sockets**. It is designed to be multi-platform and supporst many programming languages. 

2. **WCF Relays**

This is a **legacy component** used only for WCF endpoints.

In both cases **SDKs** are available with support for all the major platforms and programming languages inthe namespace [**Microsoft.Azure.Relay**](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.Relay).  

---

### [What is the difference between Azure Relay Services and VPN?](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=8b69f14c-2ed2-4889-9a44-3c445ed2de96&clip=2&mode=live)    

### Relay Services

1. No Network configuration or setup is required.
2. End Points are scoped to a single port on a single device.
3. Charged per connection that is for the number of listeners.
4. Are Http & WEb-Socket based.

### Traditional VPN

1. Requires more configuration to achieve connection.
2. VPN are generally network-wide.

## WCF Relay

1. Charged **permessage** and not per endpoint.

Hence, they may be more cost effective if there exist multiple endpoints to expose each with low message volume.

2. Cheaper than hybrid connection in some scenarios i.e. low message volume.
3. Only support WCF & .Net Framework.
4. Must use the specific **Relay Binding** to connect the WCF service(s).

---

### [Creating an Azure Relay Service](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=8b69f14c-2ed2-4889-9a44-3c445ed2de96&clip=3&mode=live)   

1. Create a **namespace** wich must be globally unique inside Azure.
2. Create a **Hybrid connection** or **WCF EP** in the namespace.

The namespace is created within a **subscription & resource group** and the 
**Authentication** is controlled via **Shared Access Policies** set at either **namespace level or connection level**.

- [Demo - Creating a Relay Namespace & Hybrid Connection & WCF Relays](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=8b69f14c-2ed2-4889-9a44-3c445ed2de96&clip=4&mode=live)   

The process of creation of a Hybrid connection results in a **Hybrid Connection URL** that is the End Point of the Hybrid Connection. If the Hybrid Connection has been created to make use of Authentication then **Acess Policies** must be created.

One option is to **create two access policies**.

1. an access policy to listen for data sent from the EP.
2. an access policy to send data to the EP.

Notice that this guarantees that an **Hybrid Connection** supports **secure bidirectional communication** between Azure and any reource outsite it via a **single endpoint**. As the EP is reacheable over **HTTP** it is not necessary to open any ports through the on-premise firewall.

---

### Typical Scenario for Hybrid Connection

A business owns and manage private IT infrstructure i.e. a network at one of his branch offices or headquarters. It wants to distrubute some files in a secure way which originate from one of the headquarters to the other headquarters and branch offices.

One way to solve this problem inexpensively by leveraging Azure infrastructure is to use the Relay service. The headquarter that act as a source of the files to distribute will send the files to a Hybrid Connection endpoint in azure and the other headquarters and branch offices will then be able to read from the Hybrid Connection EP to retrieve the files.

Notice that in both cases HTTP requests are made to the Hybrid Copnnection EP over HTTP and there is no need to open any port through any of the firewalls.

Th Hybrid connection is paid per connection but a cheaper solution when the volume of data is lomited in to use WCF Relay instead, although in this case ony .net Framework is supported as SDKs.

Another similar but typical example is to make available a **SLQ Server from one branch office or headquarters to other**. The mechanism is the same as for the scenario just described only the nature of the data sent to and read from the Hybrid connection EP changes.

---

## [Events with Event Grid](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0588df39-38a5-4547-a83f-37cbd1350757&clip=0&mode=live)  

1. What is Azure Event Grid?
2. Working with built-in Events
3. Working with custome events

### [What is Azure Event Grid](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0588df39-38a5-4547-a83f-37cbd1350757&clip=2&mode=live)  

- A **real-tine** event processing system built into Azure
- It is desigend to run at **massive scale**
- It is designed to be **multi-platform** end **open** through custom events
- It is **serveless** which means that it is not necessary to provision ant resource and not even configure anything to use Event Grid

---

### Core Components of Azure Event Grid

1. Event Sources    (Topics)
2. Event Handlers   (Subscriptions)

**Event Sources** are **native components within Azure** that are capable of raising events for the Event Grid. It is also possible to **build custom topics** thus send events to the grid.

**Event subscribers** are Azure artifacts that **can be configured to automatically react** to events published by the Event Grid.

### Examples of Event Sources (Topics)

- Blod Storage
- Azure Subscription
- Media Services
- Resource Group
- Event Hub
- IoT Hub
- Service Bus
- Custom Topic

### Example of Event Handlers (Subscriptions)

- Azure Function
- Logic Apps
- AzureAutomation
- Web Hooks
- Queue Storage
- Hybrid Connections! (Relay Services)
- Event Hubs

---

### Type & Structure of Events

- There is a **core schema** for all types of the events 
- A part of the event schema that is not in the core schema is specific to the topic that raises it
- The **data object** is the part of the event schema that is publisher specific

---

### [What to do to get started with Event Grid](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0588df39-38a5-4547-a83f-37cbd1350757&clip=3&mode=live)  

1. Register Event Grid at **subscription level**

On the **Azure Portal** go to **Subscriptions** then **Resource Providers** the serach for **Event Grid** andd click register.

No other configuration is required. Once the subscription has the Event Grid enabled as one of its services you can begin to latch up azure conmponets within that subscription to the Event Grid as publisher and/or subscriber.

---

### [Custom Apps subscribing to Internal Azure Events](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0588df39-38a5-4547-a83f-37cbd1350757&clip=4&mode=live)  

- [Demo](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-enterprise-messaging-eventing&author=stephen-thomas&name=0588df39-38a5-4547-a83f-37cbd1350757&clip=5&mode=live)   

---

## Event Grid Custom Events

1. Define the event specific part of schema for the custom event.
2. **Create a Topic** to which the events will be **sent** and which will **raise** the event to notify its subscribers.
3. Add subcribers to the Topic as needed.
4. Foe each subscriber you can determine the **retry logic** and the **action** to take once the retry allowance is exceeded i.e. deadqueueing the
event.

### The Event's Topic

You **must** create an Azure object named **Topics** for your custom events to wwork with. When the Topic is created it is **associated with a HTTP End Point**. It is this EP that is used to send the custom events to. When the 
Topic receives the events at its EP then it raises them for all its subscribers.

This infrastructure is designed this way because the EP of the Topic can be secured by **Access Policy** as part of the Topic. This means that in order to send valid events to the Topic's EP an application must know the EP **and** the **shared acess key** for the EP. Clearly, only the creator of the Topic and/or EP can know and convey this information making the EP secure and derby the cutom events.  

#### Create the Topic

1. Go to the **Azure Portal**.
2. Navigate to **Azure Event Grid Topics**.
3. **Add** a Topic - the filed **DNSName** is tye name of the Topic.
4. You mostly leave the other fields to their default.
5. **Create** the Topic.

#### Add a subscriptions to the Topic

1. Go to the **Azure Portal**.
2. Navigate to the Event Grid Topic
3. **Add Subscription**
4. Provide the **End Point details of the Subriber** i.e. `WebHook, Storage Queue, Event Hub, Hybrid Connection (Relay Service)`
5. Provode an **Event Subscription Name**
6. Create
7. Adjust **Properties & Features** of the subscription i.e. **retry policy**.

#### Send events to the Topic

In order to send custom events to a Topic you can use any of the following.

1. Powershell
2. Azure CLI
3. Net Code
4. Other Azure Artifacts i.e. Logic Apps.

---