# [Managing Microsoft Azure Virtual Networks (by Tim Warner)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks)  

Refs

- [Microsoft Azure Architect Technologies](AZ-300)(https://app.pluralsight.com/paths/certificate/microsoft-azure-architect-technologies-az-300)

---

## [AZ-300 Objectives Coverage](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/learning/exam-az-300.aspx)  

1. Deploy and Configure Infrastructure (25-50%)

    - Implement and manage virtual networking
    - Create connectivity between virtual networks

---

# Part1 - Creating and Configuring an Azure Virtual Network

## Basics and Goals

1. Undestand the role of Azure Virtual Network (VNET)

2. How to design and deploy a VNET

3. Configure VNET Security Groups

4. Deploying IP configurations to VMs in Azure   

## Related Content

1. AZ-203

- [Provisioning Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines (by Anthony Nocentino)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning/table-of-contents)

---

## Undestanding Azure Virtual Networks (VNETs)

### What is a VNET?

A VNET is a **container object** that provides the following services to an **Azure Administrator**.

1. **Traffic Isolation**
2. **Traffic segmentation**
3. **An isolation boundary**
4. **Traffic control into and out of the VNET boundary, between VNTEs, and within the VNET** at several different layers.

A **IPv4 address space** is assigned to each individual VNET. This is an overall **Classless Inter-Domain Routing block od addresses (CIDR) of private RFC1918 IP addresses**. These addresses being private are not internet routable. 
- [Classless Inter-Domain Routing](https://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/CIDR)  
- [Classless Interdomain Routing (CIDR)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q1U9wVXRuHA)   

### [Why do we need VNETs and how we use them?](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=6&mode=live)  

There may be several reasons why the IT infrastructure of a business or organization may need to be broken down into separate VNets. Some examples are presente below.

- The organization is structurally and/or logically divided in separate departments or business areas which have different IT needs i.e. billing, hedquarters, policies, etc.

- It is necessary to maintain information isolation between different business units for legal reasons, due to regional regulation or simply because the level of risk connected to the information held or transmitted is different between the business units.

- Other similar reasons i.e. the business is geographically delocalized and the IT infrastructure would be better managed 
by individual VNet with assets closer to the location of each individual business unit.

Normally VNETs are used in conjunctions with VMs in that VMs are placed inside Virtual Networks. Furthermore, **service endpoints** of other Azure resources such as **Azure SQL database**, **Azure AppServices**, **Azure Storage Accounts** can also be **linked to** a VNET.

The resources that are part of a VNET can communicate with each other over **TCP/IP** by means of **private IP addresses**.

**Optionally, VMs can also e configured with public IP addresses (PIP)** which make them available over the Internet. However, this possibility opens up some security issues. There exist ways to overcome this security issues and yet make VMs available over the internet.

### Can different VNETs connect?

Yes, this is possible but **it is not automatic** and **active steps must be taken** to make sure that individual VNETs can communicate with each other.

---

### Layers and Parts of a typical VNET

In the following we discuss the typical resources that feature in a solution based on a VNET.

1. The VNET
2. Virtual Machines
3. Availability Sets
4. Subnets
5. Load balancers
6. Jumpbox VM
7. Network Security Group
8. Gateway subnet and VPN Gateway
9. Hybrid Cloud Network, VPN gateways, ExpressRoute circuit

In the traditional scenario of a n-tier application with the classical partitions

 - Web tier
 - Business tier
 - Data tier
 - Management tier
 - Active Directory tier

1. The VNET resource is the outermost boundary of an ecosystem of Azure resources. It normally encompasses all the tiers mentioned above.

2. Azure VMs normally live inside **subnets** created within the VNET and it is common practice to create a subnet per each tier. 

3. The number of the VMs within eaxch subnet depends on the specific application and the redundancy that the design requires per each tier.

4. The main reason why VMs are assigned to **subnets** within a VNET it is possible to secure each subnet by protecting traffic in and out each subnet by means of an **Azure resource called Network Security Group (NSG)**.

5. **Access to the whole Azure VNET by an administrator** can be achived by means of a design technique called **Jumpbox**. A **Jumpbox** is a dedicated VM deployed within a VNET AND TO WHICH A **public IP address** is assigned. This VM is now accessible from the internet but access to its public IP address can be restricted to administartors. These can then looged on this **Jumpbox VM** to manage all the remaining infrastructure withini the same VNET.

6. **Azure Load Balancers** are resources placed **outside** and **inside** the boundary of a VNET. A load balancer **placed outside** the VNET will normally have a public IP address which is made secure and its role is to load-balance the incoming request to the VMs that are deployed to the Web tier subnet. Conversely, load balancer **inside** the VNET are used to connet the upstream and downstream subnet i.e. a load balancer internal to teh VNET could be located in the subnet of the Business tier to receive the incoming traffic coming from the upstream web tier and load balance it to the **availability set** downstream. The term **Availability Set** in this context refer to the set of VMs deployed to the business subnet.

7. **A gateway subnet** is a subnet within a VPN within which an Azure resource called **VPN gateway** is deployed. This is normally provision in order to **securely connect a on-premises network to a VNET**. This arrangement allows the on-premises resources to e accessed and administer from teh VNET and viceversa. The **VPN Gateway** allows a **IPsec/IKEv2 tunnel** to be established between the on-premises netwok and the VNET. This is a secure and always on connection etween the two networks.
This architecture is often referred to as **Hybrid Cloud Network**. An alternative to creating **Hybrid Cloud Networks** via **VPN Gateways** is to use a **ExpressRoute circuit** which provides a high-speed link between an on-premises network and a VPN of up to **10 Gbps**. This technology si **special** in that **the traffic is routed over a dedicated network and not over the internet**.

---

### Name Resolution within a VNET and between VNETs

- VMs deployed within teh same VNET can resolve eac other's host names automatically **without the need for further configuration**.

- This is not the case of VMs deployed to separate VNETs.

The are typically two approaces to DNS resolution between two separate VNETs

1. Use a DNS server i.e. implemented with a dedicated VM within each VNET and the necessary forwarding.

2. Use **Azure DNS service**. This reource is used to link to VNets and makes it possible to manage DNS resolution betwen them without having to manage the same infrastructure by means of dedicated VMs as suggested above.

---

## [Designing and Deploying VNETs](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=11ad530b-0a30-425a-9080-07d7054900db&clip=5&mode=live)

- [Demo - Designing and Deploying VNETs](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=11ad530b-0a30-425a-9080-07d7054900db&clip=6&mode=live) 

- [Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilhGh9CEIwM) 

- [Routing Tables Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8eP4fhrx3I)  

### Best Practices

1. Create subnets based on worloads  

2. Bind NSGs to subnets and not individual subnets  

3. Deploy **Network Virtual Appliance (NVA)** and **User-Defined Routes (UDR)** to further customize traffic. 

**NVAs** are available on the **Azure Marketplace** and can easily be installed into a VNET as VMs. Normally these are **load balancers** or **firewalls**.

4. To connect VNETs use the **site-to-site tunnels** such as **ExpressRoute circuit or VPN gateways** as described above.

5. Use **pint-to-point tunnels** to connect individual machines to VNETs. 

In this case an **Azure Agent** is installed to the device that represent the **point** part of the connection i.e. a laptop, etc. This allows the administrator of the **point** to access the VNET resources via a **VPN tunnel**.

---

## [Deploying VNETs via automation](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=11ad530b-0a30-425a-9080-07d7054900db&clip=6&mode=live)  

You can automate the process of creation of VNETs and other deployments of Azure resources by means of templates that are made available to the Azure community by its memebrs. 

- [Azure Quickstart Templates](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/templates/)  

- [Azure/azure-quickstart-templates](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates)  

- [azure-quickstart-templates/101-vnet-two-subnets/](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/101-vnet-two-subnets)  

--- 

## Configuring Network Security with Security Groups (NSG)

**Network Security Groups (NSG)** are **software firewall object**. **NSG are stateful and protect inbound and outbount traffic**. **NSGs** can be bound to either **individual VMs** or **subnets** but the latter binding choice is much better as it proves more flexible from the managemen point of view. 

By **binding a NSG to a subnet** all the VMs inside the same subnet are subject to the same **firewall rules** as set by the NSG. Moreover, **NSGs are reusable objects** that is to say that once a NSG is created and configured **by means of the Azure Resource Manager i.e. from the Azure Portal** it can be assigned to multiple resources i.e. multiple subnets.

**Statefulness** in NSG is achieved by computing an **5-tuple hash** based on the following five pieces of information.

1. source IP
2. destination IP
3. source port
4. destination port
5. protocol TCP or UDP

The **hash value** denotes to Azure each conversation as a  **traffic stram**. **NSG applies default rules** and also **custom rules (augmented rules)** that can be added to the 
NSG when it is provisioned.

### Service Tags

**Service tags** are used together with **NSGs** to simplify the creation and the application of **firewall rules** to NSGs. The following is a subset of **Service Tags** which are in turn **keywords** which can be used to kraft either **inbound and outbound** rules. By means of the **service tags** it is no longer necessary to look up the Azure published public IP addreses ranges which greatly simplifies the process crafting the NSG rules.


| Keyword | Meaning |
| ------- | ------- |
|`Internet`| The rule applies to internet traffic to or from public IP addresses.|
|`VirtualNetwork`| The rule applies to internet traffic to or from private IP addresses located within the same VNET or connected VNET or on-premises linked networks.|
|`AzureLoadBalancer`| The rule applies to traffic from and to a Azure Load Balancer Appliance.|
|`AzureTrafficManager`| The rule applies to traffic from and to a Azure DNS-level load balancer.|
|`Storage`| The rule applies to traffic from and to a Azure storage nodes which tipically have public IP endpoints exposing a REST API.|
|`SQL`| The rule applies to traffic from and to a Azure SQL public IP endpoints.|
|`AzureCosmosDB`| The rule applies to traffic from and to a Azure CosmoDB public IP endpoints.|
|`AzureKeyVault`| The rule applies to traffic from and to a Azure Key Vault IP endpoints.|
|``| .|

### Resources

- [What is a Firewall?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x1YLj06c3hM)  

- [Network Essentials: What is a Firewall?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wV7g8XD7oFw)

- [Waht is a VLAN?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oo-hejIq3iQ)

- [Layer 3 - Network Layer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_d2zkAFytPk)  
--- 

## [Application Security Groups (ASG)]()

- [Demo](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=11ad530b-0a30-425a-9080-07d7054900db&clip=10&mode=live)  

The table below illustrate the typical set up with **whitelisting** to secure a set of resources deployed to Azure. The content in the columns **Source and Destination** are **Logic Identifiers** that are **user defined** and represent a range of addresses public or privates which are used by resources to communicate. **Users can define their own identifiers and corresponding logical groups** and then craft a rule table like the one below. These **identifiers are Application Security Groups (ASGs)** and identify a bundle of Azure Resources. They can be created by using **Powershell via the Azure Remote Module or Azure CLI** (or perhaps from the portal if this feature has alreay been made available there).

Rules tables are used by Azure NSG to determine whether traffic must be allowed or denied. The **5-tuple hash** is used to find a match with the rules in the table starting from its top and moving towards the bottom. Notice the last line in the rule table below which blocks all traffic that does has not found a match with any of the prvious rules. This is called **secure-by-default strategy** as any kind of traffic in or out of the resource or set of resources (normally a containing subnet) must be explicitly whitelisted by a specific rule in the table prior to the last one.


| Action | Name | Source | Destination | Port |
|--------|------|--------|-------------|------|
|`Allow` |`AllowIntenetToWeb`|`Internet`|`WebServers`|`80,433 (HTTP/HTTPS)`|
|`Allow` |`AllowWebToWeb`|`WebServices`|`AppServers`|`433 (HTTPS)`|
|`Allow` |`AllowAppToDb`|`AppServers`|`DbServers`|`1433 (MSSQL)`|
|`Deny`  |`DenyAllInbound`|`Any`|`Any`|`Any`|

---

### Virtual Network Interface Configuration (VNIC)

In Azure the configuration of the Newtwok Interface of a VM is **a modular resource completely separated** from the VM itself. 

- **VNICs and VMs** are two complteley separate resources.

 Users should not log into their deplyed VMs in order to configure the corresponding network interfaces. Instead, **VNIC** resources are configured separately and allocated to each VM. Moreover, any VNIC can be **detached** from a VM and reused on another VM.

 ## How to monitor and troubleshoot IasS and NSGs
 
 Information about tools and references material that explain how they may be employed are listed below. 

`Network Watcher` is **built into Azure**. It is a service that can be effectivly employed in the troubleshooting of `Newtwork Security Groups (NSGs)` among other things. It allows to **visualise network traffic and analyse network packets in a virtual network**.

`Network Perofrmance Monitor` is part of the `Log Analytics Azure Managemnet Solution` suite. This is an **always on VNet monitor** which can produce alerts when problems on any monitored Vnet happen.  

- [Troubleshooting with Microsoft Azure Network Watcher](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/azure-network-watcher-troubleshooting/table-of-contents)     

- [Network Performance Monitor solution in Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/insights/network-performance-monitor)    


---

## [How to correclty expose a VM deployed to Azure](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=11ad530b-0a30-425a-9080-07d7054900db&clip=13&mode=live)  

**The simplest way** is to assign a `Public IP Adress (PIP)` to it. Howver, this methods opens up the VM to the whole internet and its not secure enough in most scenarios.

The **recommended way** is to use a **Azure (Public) Load Balancer with network adress translation in front of the VM**. Let the **Load Balancer do port mapping to the RDP port service of the Windows OS on the VM or use the SSH protocol when the VM runs Linux**. 

---

# Part 2 - Implementing Traffic Control in a Azure Virtual Network

## Basics and Goals

1. Create a hybrid cloud in Azure 

2. Connecting Virtual Networks

## Related Content

1. AZ-203

- [Provisioning Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines (by Anthony Nocentino)](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-azure-virtual-machines-provisioning/table-of-contents)

- [Azure Architecture Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/)

---

## [Azure Architecture Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/)

This excellent resource that covers several aspect of architecture in Azure solution and is filled with resources. It also offers **typical user cases design solutions** in the form of **reference architecture**.
**Visio Diagrams** are made available free of charge to illustrate the reference architecture. This includes various typical **Network topologies** including **site-to-site VPN, ExpressRoute and redundant topologies**.

---

## Creating an Hybrid Cloud in Azure

- [Choose a solution for connecting an on-premises network to Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/) 

### [Why would you extend your on premises network to Azure?](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=1&mode=live)  

To gain the ability to monitor and manage your on premises network by leveraging the tools available in Azure i.e `Log Analytics`. The inverse is also possible whereby the resource in Azure can be monitored and manages by through tools available on your on-premises netwok.

### What are the most common ways in which the on-premises network can be extended to a VPN in Azure?

There are essentially tow ways.

1. Use `Azure ExpressRoute`. This is a **secured dedicated high performance proprietary physical layer** managed by Microsoft and 
used to by-pass entirely the Internet. You on-premise gateway connects straight into the local edge routers and these on the ExpressRoute network which leads to the edge routers to the VPN allocated in Azure.
On the Azure VPN side of the link the `ExpressRoute Gateway appliance` must be used.

2. Use a `VPN Gateway`. In this case your on-premise gateway connects to a `Azure VPN Gateway` which is an Azure **appliance** which allows a **secure bidirectional always-on connection over the insecure Internet medium to be established** between the on-premise network and the Azure VPN. This connection is secured by means of the **Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) Internet Key Exchange (IKE) V2 Tunnel**.

Note that these two solutions **need not be mutually exclusive** in fact they may also be used together inorder to achieve a **redundant** link between the on-premise and the Azure VPN. 

One consideration is that in both cases the `ExpressRoute Gateway` or the `Azure VPN Gateway` **must** be deployed to their own **Gateway subnet** which must be separate from the VPN and whose security group NSG is dedicated. 

### [Local Network Gateway](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=3&mode=live) 

 - Enables a secure link btween the on-premise gateway and Azure VPN by means of a public adress and netwerk adresses configuration and a PSK.

 - This is alos a case of `Network Peering`.

 Resources

  - [About VPN devices and IPsec/IKE parameters for Site-to-Site VPN Gateway connections](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-about-vpn-devices)  

  - [Download VPN device configuration scripts for S2S VPN connections](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-download-vpndevicescript)    

This is **a necessary Azure appliance** to `represent the on-premis gateway to the Azure VPN gateway` and is deployed as part of your Azure VPN that is extension of the on-premise newtwork. 

The `LNG` is configured with **public IP adress of your on-premise gateway and the on-premise adress spaces such as 10.1.10.0/24, 172.16.0.0/16, etc.**. 

The same `LNG` must then share a `Pre-Shared Key (PSK)` to create the necessay `handshake link` between the on-premise Network and the Azure VPN.

---

## [Highly Available Hybrid Cloud Topology](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=2&mode=live)  

The `Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)` is a protocol that can be enabled on your VPN gateways and your on-premisesd gateways to create a `Active-Active Failover`. This means that it is possible for any on-premise gateway to connect to one or more VPN gateway and viceversa. This is **another way of achieving high availability through redundancy**. In turn by **deplying multiple VPN gateways and configuring BGP on yout eon-premise gateway** your local network has a redundant link to the Azure VPN extension.

- [ What is BGP and How Does it Work?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z8INzy9E628)    

- [BGP Looking Glass Database](http://www.bgplookingglass.com/) 

- [Demo: Site-to-Site VPN in Azure](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=3&mode=live)  

---

## [Connecting VPNs](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=4&mode=live)  

- Summary

It is important to remember that `an Azure VNet is an isolation boundary within the Azure infrastructure`. This means that it is by default isolated and cannot communicate with other VNETs. 

Any appliences or Azure assets such as VMs or AppServices, etc. **deployed within the same VNet** can **freely** communicate with each other. 

Keep in mind that this normally happens by setting up `Subnets and corrisponding NSG` inside which a set of Azure resources are deployed. Then it becomes possible to control the flow of information (network traffic) between the individual subnets by means of the `rules tables` that are set-up for each `NSG`.

However, two VPNs even within the same resource group cannot communicate with each other by default and transferring assets between them such as VMs will imply to recreate them entirely in the VPN where they need to be.

**Individual Vnets have access to the internet**. Azure handles calls from Vnets to the Internet by means of `System Routes`. **System Routes are managed by Azure and cannot be manipulated by users directly**. However, users can **override system routes** by setting up **User Defined Routes (UDR)**.

### Use case - Production and Test/Development Neworks

One of the most frequent use-cases for an architectured based on two VPN is that in which there exist a **production VNET** and a **replicated test or development VNET**.  

### IP Forwarding and Service Chaining

One use case is when an organization wants to split their infrastructure into separate VNets and have them talk to each other. The preferred way to do so is to deploy to each VNet a `Virtual Network Appliance` that is an individual VM per each VNet. However, this solution might be costly.

A less expensive, although less performant and robust solution uses a single VM to which traffic is directed from each VNet by means of a `User Defined Routing Table (UDR)` configured in each VNet. 
The central VM hub then does `IP forwarding that is it forwards traffic that is not destined to itself.

---

## [VNet Peering](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=5&mode=live)  

In Azure it is possible to connect any two VNETs by peering them that is by `creating a logical link between them with enable bidirectional communication`. 

The **advantage of VNet Perring** over other more sophisticated architectures is that it  **requires little to no configuration**.

The **disadvantage** is that VNet peering **is not transitive** that is if VNet1 is peered with VNet2 and VNet2 si peered with VNet3 then **VNet1 is not able to communicate with VNet3**. This problem can be overcome by employing the `Transit VNet with Hub and Spoke` architecture as described later.

- [Virtual Network Peering Scenarios](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=stGMZranIbc)  

---

## [Transit VNet with Hub & Spoke](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=6&mode=live)  

- [Working with Route Tables, VNet Peering and DNS Private Zones](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?course=microsoft-azure-implement-manage-virtual-networks&author=tim-warner&name=94c76fe6-0e04-43ad-9b44-b767a42e7fd8&clip=8&mode=live)  

### Scenario - Add a Route Table and associate it to a Vnet and Subnet

A VNet has already been set up in Azure for a business unit of your organization. `The requirement` is now that all the traffic in and out this VNet is  routed through another `Hub VNet` in which a network applience is located i.e. a VM.

1. Create a `Route Table Resource`.
2. Add a route to this table such that the **address prefix** of the route in CIDR notation represent the destination address of all the traffic that is to be routed to the `Hub VNet`.
3. Set the `Next Hop Type` to the correct type of destination of the routed Traffic. Possibilities are i.e. `Virtual Network Gateway, Virtual Netwok, Internet, Virtual Appliance, etc.`
4. Specify the `Next Hop Address` so that it matches the destination address of the `Hub VNet` or any Azure applience the traffic ought to be forwarded to.
5. Once the `Route Table` is completed with all the routes that are required to force the traffic as desired `add (bind) the route table to any subnets you which to apply it to.`

### Scenario - VNet Peering

In order to properly cover the topic of **VNet Peering** the excellent resource below may be used as an addition to the demo above. This resource provides also a quick but thorough recap on basic concepts related to **the fundamental building block of IaaS in Azure** that is the **VNet**. 

- [Virtual Network Peering Scenarios](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=stGMZranIbc)   

### Some highlights

- **VNet** are **the fundamental building block of IaaS in Azure** and their **main function is that of isolation boundary**. This means that **each VNet** is a **completely private network with no default ingress point**. This also explain why **traffic between VNets which are set up as part of the same resource group and belong to the same organization cannot exchage traffic by default**.

Normally an organization which needs to set up individual VNet would do so that each VNet is part **of a separate subscription**. The typical scenario is that of **segregated cost management and billing** for individual business units or areas. The other case is that of **isolation of traffic** between business units due to different leagl requirements such as the advertising department and the financial information department of a fintech or insurance firm.

There exist two ways to enable traffic betwenn VNets lying in separate subscription.

1. **Site-to-Site VPN** over **IPSec IKE S2S tunnel** established between **VPN Gateways**.

### Drawbacks 

This solution requires to provision **two VPN Gateway** one per each VNet. The drawback of this approach is that the **VPN Gateway** may have high cost for your organization and the deployment may be complex. Another **major frowback** is that the **bandwith of VPN Gateways is limited to 200 Mbps** which might be niot enough for your organization.

### Advantages

It works between VNet located in the same or different regions that is any two networks.
**It is transitive!** that is if VnetA is tunneled to VnetHub and VNetB is also tunneled to VnetHub then NVentA and VNetB can route traffic between them. **This is the so-called Hub and Spokes Architecture** which in some scenario can be used to reduce costs.

2. **VNte Peering**

Essentially **peering** makes appears the **VNets as a single logical Network**. However the **VNets remain separate resources** which is a big advantage in terms of management and security as explained below in more detail.

### Drawbacks 

This solution can only be applied between **VNets** located in **the same Azure region**.
The traffic between **peered VNet is not ecrypted** which might be a requirement in your organization. However, this is may also be a benefit as encrypted network traffic is heavier and requires more bandwith which in turn affets the cost and size of the VMs and/or applieances. If you really need encrypted traffic then the only option is to use **site-to-site**.

### Advantages

This solution **does not require VPN Gateways** and therefore the corresponding cost and more importantly **there is no bandwith limit** as it is the case with **Site-to-Site VPNs**. Moreover, the **VNets** despite being **logically connected remain physically separate VNtes** this means that each can bemanaged separately and **its own Network Security Group NSG and/or be in its own subscription**. 
There **are no andwith penalties** to the traffic between assets located in different peered VNte with respect to those that lie in the same VNet - this is the case as the peered VNets are necessarily in the same Azure region.  

### Summary of the advantages of VNet Peering

1. No **VPN Gateways** are required reducing costs and compexity.
2. No bandwith limits.
3. The VNets remain physically separate, although logically merged. Which allows separate admins and NSGs. 
4. **Peered VNtes** can share Azure components which further reduces costs i.e. a single firewall can be deployed for all the peered Vnets as opposed each having their own.

### Summary of the caveats of VNet Peering

1. Can only work between VNets in the same Azure region.
2. **Peering is not transitive!** thus **Hub & Spokes Architecture is not possible**.
3. The VNets involved must not have overlapping IP adress spaces.
4. Cannot encrypt traffic between the two Vnets you must use **VPN Gatewas** for that.
5. If you need to resolve names between netwoks you must use your own DNS service i.e. a dedicated VM as the default VNet DNS service does not work across different physical networks.
6. The number of peering per VNet is limited to 10 by default which can be raised to a maximum of 50 by explicitly asking for this  to Azure support.


---

- **VNets** have **front end access** tha is **from the Internet** via the following Azure appliances.

  - Dynamic/Reserved public IP addresses
  - Direct VM access with Access Control Lists (ACLs) for security
  - Public load balancing (Load Balancer Appliance)
  - DNS services: hosting, traffic management
  - [**Traffic Manager**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_0uibZgVt58)  which is very flexible and can act as a load balancer in addition to other things
  - **DDoS protection** which is provided as default for free but there is an option for a paid version of it with better performance.

  -VNets have also **back end connectivity** that is connection from the **VNet** to **other NNets or on-premise Networks**.

    - **VPN Gateways** - **Site-to-Site VPN** over **IPSec IKE S2S tunnel**. This traffic is still routed through the Internet.
    - **ExpressRoute** - Microsoft owned and managed secure and low latency private infrastructure that is not the Internet.

---

## Reources on Networking in Azure

- [Azure Architecture Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/)

- [Troubleshooting with Microsoft Azure Network Watcher](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/azure-network-watcher-troubleshooting/table-of-contents)     
- [Network Performance Monitor solution in Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/insights/network-performance-monitor)   

- [Virtual Network Peering Scenarios](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=stGMZranIbc)    

- [Traffic Manager](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_0uibZgVt58)  

---

### [Traffic Manager Routing strategies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_0uibZgVt58)    

The **Traffic Manager** is an **Azure Appliance** used to route traffic between EPs **which must be located in diffent regions**.

- **Priority**: route traffic to alternatives EPs when a primary EP fails. This strategy is normally used to ensure always on services in case of service or network failure.

-**Weighted**: route traffic to EPs based on **weight rules**. In this regard the **Traffic Manager** acts as a **smart load balancer**.

- **Performance**: this is used when you want to direct users to the resource that as the **shortest path** in order to **reduce network latency to a minimum**.

- **Geographic**: this is similar to teh above but the optimization criteria is based on the relative geographic position between user and resource. The objective might not be to reduce latency but rather make sure that the traffic is routed locally i.e. to **comply with legal regulations**.